HOWTO read L-Galaxies output...               Last updated 23-Sep-15

...in IDL

This requires a template file for the galaxy structure, to be found
together with the data usually in a file called snap_template.pro.
The file itself can (should) be created from the Makfile using the
command "make metadata".  It will then appear in
L-Galaxies/awk/idl/Lgalaxy.pro after which it needs minor editing to
put it in the right format.

The template file does not, of itself, supply enough information.  We
also need to know what magnitude bands have been used.  This requires
that a copy of all the relevant input files also be kept.  This has
not always been done, but check in the relevant data directory just in
case.

The snapshot data can be read using the routine read_lgal.pro to be
found in SAM/Idl/read_lgal.pro.  An example of how to do this can be
found in SAM/Idl/read_script.pro.

Reading the the raw data can take a long time.  It is recommended that
you write a script to select only those galaxies that you want and
then use the 'save' procedure within IDL to write that data in native
binary format - that will make it much quicker to 'restore' the next
time that you want to load it.

Examples of scripts to make plots with said data can be found in
SAM/Idl/plot_script.pro and SAM/Idl/plot_procedure.pro.

...in python

This requires a template file for the galaxy structure, to be found
together with the data usually in a file called snap_template.py.
The file itself can (should) be created from the Makfile using the
command "make metadata".  It will then appear in
L-Galaxies/awk/python/LGalaxyStruct.py after which my recommendation
is to rename it snap_template.py and move it to the data directory.

The template file does not, of itself, supply enough information.  We
also need to know what magnitude bands have been used.  This requires
that a copy of all the relevant input files also be kept.  This has
not always been done, but check in the relevant data directory just in
case.

The snapshot data can be read using the routine read_lgal.py to be
found in SAM/python(3)/.  An example of how to do this can be found in
SAM/python(3)/script_read.py.  Unlike the IDL version, this script can
be modified to read in only those galaxy properties that you desire.

Reading the the raw data can take a long time.  It is recommended that
you write a script to select only those galaxies that you want and
then use the 'pickle' function within python to write that data in native
binary format - that will make it much quicker to 'unpickle' the next
time that you want to load it.  Example scripts can be found at
SAM/python(3)/script_(un)pickle.py.

Examples of scripts to make plots with said data can be found in
SAM/python(3)/script_smf.py and the like.




